I'm trying something a little bit
different for this YouTube video.
Partially because of a time constraint.
I have an appointment that's coming up
in like 15 minutes. So, I have about 10
minutes to shoot this video. So, I'm
going to do it in one take. So, it might
not be perfect, but I want to share some
thoughts I have around storytelling.
And I'm quite passionate about
storytelling because I think it's
something that helps any speech. I would
argue any great speech or presentation
needs to have some element of stories
within it. It's going to help the
audience remember the information. It's
going to keep their attention. But even
businesses are starting to grasp the
importance of storytelling. And the
number of LinkedIn job requests or job
postings that included the term
storyteller has dramatically gone up in
the last few years because companies
recognize this ability to tell a great
story can actually translate to sales.
So I want to give some thoughts off the
top of my head with regard to
storytelling. What's important and
things to avoid. And what I will start
off with is the idea of jumping right
into a speech with a story because so
many people they begin speeches with
formalities. Hey everyone, for those who
don't know me, my name is Wade and today
I'm going to talk about this and this
and this. Many speakers do that. The
problem is audiences have heard that
before and it's not that interesting.
It's not adding value. or they come up
and they say, "Hey, how's everyone doing
today?" And again, it's kind of cheesy.
It doesn't really capture the audience's
attention. Instead, if you jump right
into a story,
last summer, I was going to meet some
friends and then one of the scariest
things that I've ever experienced in my
life happened to me.
Okay, now the audience is thinking,
"Whoa, what what happened? this is
interesting. I'm invested. And if those
are the first words out of your mouth
when you are giving a speech, that is
very different. You are disrupting a
pattern. You are capturing the
audience's attention right away. So
starting a speech with a story is
incredibly powerful. One thing you want
to avoid doing when giving stories in a
speech is giving stories that don't have
any sort of relevance to the overall
point or things that your audience can't
really relate to. This isn't to say you
can't tell personal stories. Personal
stories are encouraged. But the problem
is is that if I just tell a story for
the point of telling a story, maybe to
get some laughs, sure, that might be
entertaining in the short term, but if
there's no real connection, it kind of
lacks energy. It it depletes the purpose
of the speech. Audiences might be a
little bit confused. Well, what does
that have to do with everything else
that you're talking about? And so, it
can distract from your overall message.
Instead, you always want to be thinking
about the audience, the why. What is it
that you hope that they're getting from
this presentation? Focus on that. The
next mistake people make from time to
time when telling stories is getting
hung up on the little details that
really don't matter that much. An
example of this, I was out for dinner a
few months ago and there was somebody
who was telling a story and she wasn't
100% sure on the details. So, the story
she was pretty sure happened in October
or wait was it September or maybe it was
even August that the story happened.
Anyways, she was at a restaurant and she
ordered the nachos or or was it the
tacos or what exact these details
probably aren't essential to the story,
but some people have this this need,
this feeling, a very powerful urge to
have to
make sure that everything is 100%
accurate. But the problem with that,
when you're constantly jumping in and
correcting your own story, each time you
do that, it disrupts the story a little
bit. It takes away some of the ump, some
of the emphasis from that presentation,
from that story, and it sidetracks
things. And so, if you were listening to
the story and there's all of these
constant little interruptions on the
details, you're more likely to get
distracted, to be less interested. So,
if you are telling a story, if the
details aren't essential, it's fine.
It's fine if you got the month wrong or
the restaurant wrong or the thing you
ate that evening wrong, especially if
it's not essential to the story. And a
bonus tip, if you are the type of person
who likes to correct other people, so
they're in the middle of a story and you
jump in, no, it didn't happen this way,
stop doing that. Stop doing that because
you are taking away from their story.
And again, if it is not an essential
part of it, there's no point. It's just
disrupting a great story. I lied. There
was one small edit. There's one stitch
in this video because there was an
important point and I couldn't remember
it off the top of my head, which is
funny because that point has to do with
memorization. You see, many people
struggle to memorize their speech and
they have a very tough time detaching
from notes. They write everything down
word for word and then when they give a
presentation they want to have those
notes and give that presentation. But
when you read notes verbatim off of a
sheet of paper it is very distracting.
The voice often goes monotone. It
eliminates the ability to use body
language. It takes away from the impact
of your speech. And so one of the
reasons or the great benefits to
incorporating stories, not just is it
more interesting for the audience, like
audience members would rather hear a
great story, especially if it relates to
your point, than listen to a bunch of
data or statistics. Stories are more
interesting. They're more likely to be
remembered by a crazy
amount like like some people have said
22 times more likely to be remembered.
stories will be more remembered than
facts alone. But also, it helps you in
building your speech because if you tell
stories that you have told many times
before to friends or family members or
colleagues, now you don't need to write
those stories down word for word and
read them off of a piece of paper
because they're they're up here already.
Instead, you if you really needed to
have notes, you could just have a little
bullet point reminder that tells you
what the story is. And then that'll just
be your cue to go and tell a story that
you are already familiar with telling.
This video, this this oneit almost one
take video is all to reinforce the idea
that storytelling is not just a nice to
have. It is essential. It is an
essential piece of any great speech. I
don't care if it is a professional
business presentation. I don't care if
it's a wedding speech. Whatever the
format, a virtual call, stories help
make your speeches better. Full stop.
So, make sure you're telling great
stories. And hopefully some of these
tips about storytelling help you on the
next presentation.